Let's start!

1
What is the role of feature variables in a classification problem?


To determine the accuracy of the model


To provide additional context to the target variable


To assess the performance of the model


To classify the target variable into different categories

Correct!
Start project before checking your activities.

2
Which of the following best defines the target variable in a classification problem?


The variable used for normalization


The variable being predicted


The variable used for feature engineering


The variable used for making predictions

Correct!
Start project before checking your activities.

3
In a binary classification problem to predict whether a customer will churn or not, what would be the target variable?


Customer income


Likelihood of churn


Customer ID


Customer age

Correct!
Start project before checking your activities.

Classification is a fundamental task in machine learning, and it involves categorizing data into different classes or categories. Binary classification is a fundamental technique in machine learning where the goal is to classify data into two distinct classes or categories. On the other hand, multiclass classification expands the scope by allowing the classification of data into more than two classes, enabling the analysis and prediction of a broader range of outcomes.

Now it's time to Practice!

Framingham Risk Score

The Framingham_10yrs dataset comprises a range of features that encompass medical and lifestyle factors of individuals. The dataset provides valuable insights into the health profile of the subjects and can be utilized for diverse analytical purposes.

The dataset you will be using contains the following features:

Variable	Description
Unnamed: 0	Index/identifier for each individual
male	Gender of the individual (0 = Female, 1 = Male)
age	Age of the individual in years
education	Level of education
currentSmoker	Smoking status (0 = Non-smoker, 1 = Smoker)
cigsPerDay	Number of cigarettes smoked per day
BPMeds	Use of blood pressure medications (0 = No, 1 = Yes)
prevalentStroke	History of stroke (0 = No, 1 = Yes)
prevalentHyp	Hypertension status (0 = No, 1 = Yes)
diabetes	Diabetes status (0 = No, 1 = Yes)
totChol	Total cholesterol level in mg/dL
sysBP	Systolic blood pressure in mmHg
diaBP	Diastolic blood pressure in mmHg
BMI	Body Mass Index
heartRate	Resting heart rate in beats per minute
glucose	Blood glucose level in mg/dL
TenYearCHD	Presence of coronary heart disease in 10 years
4
Identify the target variable for this problem


BMI


diabetes


currentSmoker


TenYearCHD

Correct!
Start project before checking your activities.

Let's import the libraries into your notebook:

import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
For this task read the data 'Framinghan_10ys.csv' into a Pandas data frame and store in 'df_t'.

Let's separete the target and the features into two variables.

5
Separate the target and the features into two variables.

Store the features in X and the target y.

There are different ways to approach this task; however, in order to pass, 'y' should be a series and 'X' a dataframe.

Correct!
Start project before checking your activities.

6
Based on previous tasks identify if this problem is a binary of multiclass classification problem


Multiclas


Binary

Correct!
Start project before checking your activities.

7
You are given a dataset containing information about customers of an e-commerce website. The goal is to predict whether a customer will make a purchase or not based on their characteristics. Identify the target variable and the features variables in this scenario.


Target variable: Purchase id; Features variables: Customer age, Time spent on the website, Number of products viewed.


Target variable: Customer age; Features variables: Purchase amount, Time spent on the website, Number of products viewed.


Target variable: Purchase amount; Features variables: Customer age, Time spent on the website, Number of products viewed.


Target variable: Customer will make a purchase; Features variables: Customer age, Purchase amount, Time spent on the website, Number of products viewed.

Correct!
